Welcome back.
As I mentioned in the previous video there are actually two types of a race.
One is called static and the other dynamic race.
Now what is the difference between the two.
Well the one limitation of static race is that they're fixed in size meaning you need to specify the
number of elements your array will hold ahead of time so in this case if this was a static array I would
say create an array of seven items.
Knowing beforehand that in my grocery list I'm only going to have Max seven items because arrays are
allocated in adjacent blocks of memory when they're created.
There's no guarantee that after we've allocated seven shelves of memory that you can keep adding things
on especially in order we solve this problem with static arrays that require us to say ahead of time.
Hey I only want seven shelves of memory with Dynamic arrays and dynamic arrays allow us to copy and
we build an array at a new location which with more memory.
If we wanted more memory so for example with our static array if we realized that we forgot another
item on our list and we need eight items.
What happens is we copy this entire array.
We allocate 14 blocks of memory and paste this list plus the eighth item into that new location.
Let me show you how this works with code you see in languages like C++.
Let me scroll down over here in C++ which has static arrays to create an array you do something like
this you would say int a
and this says I want an array that has space of 20 items or you can do something like int b
and then fill up the array of five items with one two three four five integers.
That's what it stands for numbers and because of this and because this is a static array in order for
us to add a six item on here well we would need to copy this entire array and move it over to completely
different area of memory in order to create the space for it.
Now luckily for us when I showed you with JavaScript how to do this well we never had to worry about
it.
Did we in our javascript example we never really allocate a memory.
And that's because in JavaScript and other languages like Python where you have lists and array list
in Java they work like Dynamic arrays they automatically allocate memory according to the increase in
size of the array.
So right off the bat you're thinking dynamic arrays are way better easier.
I don't have to think about memory because of automatic re sizing and that gets into a discussion of
managing memory which low level languages like C++ allow while higher level languages like Javascript
allow us to not think about memory and let the machine take care of it for you.
There's times where maybe you do want to manage your memory and times where you don't need to based
on your needs.
Obviously having more control over memory allows you to really tweak things and make things faster.
And that's why languages like C++ can be much faster than higher languages higher level languages like
javascript but we don't need to get into that.
What we want to get out of this lesson is that dynamic array expands as you add more elements so you
don't need to determine the size ahead of time but you may have noticed something with Dynamic arrays
you see over here how I have append that of one that is the same as the push command that we did in
the previous lesson.
But I have a star here that says it can be o of an Why is that.
Well if we remember our array and let's remove the extra items here that we don't need so just say ABC
deep if underneath the hood javascript and our machine only created for blocks of memory for this array
and we add another letter underneath the hood because this is a dynamic array.
It's going to loop over these items copy them and move it to a different location with now eight blocks
of space so that we can keep adding onto here and you see here because we did this looping the operation
becomes of an so that's something to keep in mind although it's a minor detail it's good to know how
things work underneath the hood and most of the time with the languages that you're working and during
interviews you will be talking about dynamic arrays and you won't have to worry about allocating memory
and thinking about the possibility that you might have to copy the array that's really low level.
But I wanted to show you how they work so that you have those fundamentals going for it and understand
that when it comes to arrays just because you're adding at the end using the push command you can assume
that it's 0 of 1 most of the times or constant time but every once in a while you might encounter a
situation where it's over in linear time.
I'll see in the next video.